---
arturl_encode: "68747470:733a2f2f626c6f672e6373646e2e6e65742f6a756e65766f66:756c2f61727469636c652f64657461696c732f353733303731"
layout: post
title: "微软上海全球技术支持中心招聘Axapta技术支持工程师"
date: 2020-12-05 02:19:54 +0800
description: "Support Professional - Dynamic Ax Technology发布日期： "
keywords: "上海微软技术支持 体验"
categories: ['Axapta']
tags: ['招聘', '微软', 'Training', 'Standards', 'Microsoft', 'Axapta']
artid: "573071"
image:
    path: https://api.vvhan.com/api/bing?rand=sj&artid=573071
    alt: "微软上海全球技术支持中心招聘Axapta技术支持工程师"
render_with_liquid: false
featuredImage: https://bing.ee123.net/img/rand?artid=573071
featuredImagePreview: https://bing.ee123.net/img/rand?artid=573071
---

# 微软上海全球技术支持中心招聘Axapta技术支持工程师

Support Professional - Dynamic Ax Technology
  
发布日期： 2005年09月29日

JOB TITLE:Support Professional - Dynamic Ax Technology
  
Location:Shanghai
  
Organization: GTSC-Partner

Job Description:

• Accept and appropriately resolve customer issues ensuring resolution in a timely manner and in accordance with the Microsoft Terms & Conditions and contractual agreements.
  
  
• Accept escalations from less knowledgeable staff that require a higher degree of technical expertise.
  
  
• Demonstrate strong communication skills ensuring that verbal and written responses are relevant, complete and easily understood when communicating with internal team members, partners and customers.
  
  
• Preparation of knowledge documents
  
  
• Use sound judgment in the management, escalation and resolution of support cases.
  
  
• Maintain a high level of technical knowledge & skill in Microsoft Technologies as they relate to the MBS product range.
  
  
• Training Facilitation.
  
  
• Consulting to Partners and Customers.

Requirement:

• 3 - 5 years of related experience
  
  
• Bachelor Degree
  
  
• Certification in Microsoft Technologies is preferred.
  
  
• Expertise in object oriented development tools
  
  
• Knowledge of the following Microsoft technologies: SQL Server, Active Directory, IIS, MSDE, Exchange and BizTalk (recommended)
  
  
• Understanding and some experience with XML and web services
  
  
• Understanding of database connectivity standards such as ODBC and strong knowledge of operating systems and environments (Windows 2000 Server, Windows XP, Windows 2003 Server)
  
  
• Excellent written and verbal communication and problem solving skills
  
  
• Excellent customer service skills
  
  
• Excellent learning skills with the ability to quickly pick up new technologies
  
  
• Prior support experience (highly desired)
  
  
• Prior Training experience (beneficial)

以上职位均在上海工作。应聘者请将中英文简历（注明您的联系电话/通讯地址/邮编/email address）email 至
[gtscshhr@microsoft.com](mailto:gtscshhr@microsoft.com)
，主题上请写您所应聘的职位。