---
arturl_encode: "68747470733a2f2f:626c6f672e6373646e2e6e65742f4a6f6558696f6e676a696e:2f61727469636c652f64657461696c732f3137303936353331"
layout: post
title: "基于云服务的API设计和客户沟通"
date: 2023-07-19 00:35:51 +0800
description: "现在云技术高速发展。一些大型开发公司不仅在提供云的平台服务，同时提供云平台的API服务。我们的研发团"
keywords: "面向普通用户的云api交互及应用平台"
categories: ['通用话题', '概念说明']
tags: ['无标签']
artid: "17096531"
image:
    path: https://api.vvhan.com/api/bing?rand=sj&artid=17096531
    alt: "基于云服务的API设计和客户沟通"
render_with_liquid: false
featuredImage: https://bing.ee123.net/img/rand?artid=17096531
featuredImagePreview: https://bing.ee123.net/img/rand?artid=17096531
---

# 基于云服务的API设计和客户沟通

现在云技术高速发展。一些大型开发公司不仅在提供云的平台服务，同时提供云平台的API服务。我们的研发团队现在也很需要在云上封装 云 API的技术力量。

这个职位的级别高（13级，普通开发者是10-11级）（意思那就是内什么很高）。如果您有您周围的人有兴趣，请简历我。 谢谢！

Job Posting – API Designer

This position is for an API Designer to join a team for building the object model of the next generation platform for DLS and Autodesk products.
  
  
  
Job Title: API Designer
  
Location: Shanghai
  
  
  
Responsibilities:
  
•

Collaborate with diverse teams of application end-users, developers, QA, and product management at different sites globally.
  
•

Understand, collect and validate requirements and needs with application end users/customers.
  
•

Design and write specifications for object model, and guide the development team in object model implementation.
  
•

Write object model testing plug-in, and guide QA team to design object model test cases.
  
•

Co-work with the client application teams on the related object model design, documentation and consultant.
  
  
  
Requirements:
  
•

BS or higher in Mechanical Engineering or related engineering discipline
  
•

Minimum 8 year experience as CAD application end user or related experience
  
•

Excellent customer interaction and interpersonal skills
  
•

Strong technical leadership skills
  
•

Strong analytical capability and object modeling capability
  
•

Strong English communication, in both written and oral
  
•

Experienced in scripting programming and application plug-in development
  
•

Experience in documentation for end-users
  
  
  
Preferred Qualifications:
  
•

End user experience in CAM/CAE applications
  
•

Work experience on Mac platform

  

作者： 叶雄进， Joe.ye@autodesk.com