---
layout: post
title: "测试工程师面试英语"
date: 2023-08-03 14:52:31 +0800
description: "软件测试工程师面试英语                                       "
keywords: "外派道富 测试工程师 英文笔试"
categories: ['软件测试']
tags: ['面试', '测试', 'Tools', 'Testing', 'Properties', 'Documentation']
artid: "1537628"
image:
    path: https://api.vvhan.com/api/bing?rand=sj&artid=1537628
    alt: "测试工程师面试英语"
render_with_liquid: false
featuredImage: https://bing.ee123.net/img/rand?artid=1537628
featuredImagePreview: https://bing.ee123.net/img/rand?artid=1537628
---

<div class="blog-content-box">
 <div class="article-header-box">
  <div class="article-header">
   <div class="article-title-box">
    <h1 class="title-article" id="articleContentId">
     测试工程师面试英语
    </h1>
   </div>
  </div>
 </div>
 <article class="baidu_pl">
  <div class="article_content clearfix" id="article_content">
   <link href="../../assets/css/kdoc_html_views-1a98987dfd.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
   <link href="../../assets/css/ck_htmledit_views-704d5b9767.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
   <div class="htmledit_views" id="content_views">
    <h3>
     <a href="http://www.cnblogs.com/tester2test/archive/2007/02/28/659296.html" id="viewpost1_TitleUrl" rel="nofollow">
      <font color="#223355">
       软件测试工程师面试英语
      </font>
     </a>
    </h3>
    <div class="postbody">
     <p>
      选自：水木
      <br/>
      1.        What types of documents would you need for QA, QC, and Testing?
      <br/>
      2.        What did you include in a test plan?
      <br/>
      3.        Describe any bug you remember.
      <br/>
      4.        What is the purpose of the testing?
      <br/>
      5.        What do you like (not like) in this job?
      <br/>
      6.        What is quality assurance?
      <br/>
      7.        What is the difference between QA and testing?
      <br/>
      8.        How do you scope, organize, and execute a test project?
      <br/>
      9.        What is the role of QA in a development project?
      <br/>
      10.        What is the role of QA in a company that produces software?
      <br/>
      11.        Define quality for me as you understand it
      <br/>
      12.        Describe to me the difference between validation and verification.
      <br/>
      13.        Describe to me what you see as a process. Not a particular process, just the basics of having a process.
      <br/>
      14.        Describe to me when you would consider employing a failure mode and effect analysis.
      <br/>
      15.        Describe to me the Software Development Life Cycle as you would define it.
      <br/>
      16.        What are the properties of a good requirement?
      <br/>
      17.        How do you differentiate the roles of Quality Assurance Manager and Project Manager?
      <br/>
      18.        Tell me about any quality efforts you have overseen or implemented. Describe some of the challenges you faced and how you overcame them.
      <br/>
      19.        How do you deal with environments that are hostile to quality change efforts?
      <br/>
      20.        In general, how do you see automation fitting into the overall process of testing?
      <br/>
      21.        How do you promote the concept of phase containment and defect prevention?
      <br/>
      22.        If you come onboard, give me a general idea of what your first overall tasks will be as far as starting a quality effort.
      <br/>
      23.        What kinds of testing have you done?
      <br/>
      24.        Have you ever created a test plan?
      <br/>
      25.        Have you ever written test cases or did you just execute those written by others?
      <br/>
      26.        What did your base your test cases?
      <br/>
      27.        How do you determine what to test?
      <br/>
      28.        How do you decide when you have ‘tested enough?’
      <br/>
      29.        How do you test if you have minimal or no documentation about the product?
      <br/>
      30.        Describe me to the basic elements you put in a defect report?
      <br/>
      31.        How do you perform regression testing?
      <br/>
      32.        At what stage of the life cycle does testing begin in your opinion?
      <br/>
      33.        How do you analyze your test results? What metrics do you try to provide?
      <br/>
      34.        Realising you won’t be able to test everything - how do you decide what to test first?
      <br/>
      35.        Where do you get your expected results?
      <br/>
      36.        If automating - what is your process for determining what to automate and in what order?
      <br/>
      37.        In the past, I have been asked to verbally start mapping out a test plan for a common situation, such as an ATM. The interviewer might say, “Just thinking out loud, if you were tasked to test an ATM, what items might you test plan include?” These type questions are not meant to be answered conclusively, but it is a good way for the interviewer to see how you approach the task.
      <br/>
      38.        If you’re given a program that will average student grades, what kinds of inputs would you use?
      <br/>
      39.        Tell me about the best bug you ever found.
      <br/>
      40.        What made you pick testing over another career?
      <br/>
      41.        What is the exact difference between Integration &amp; System testing, give me examples with your project.
      <br/>
      42.        How did you go about testing a project?
      <br/>
      43.        When should testing start in a project? Why?
      <br/>
      44.        How do you go about testing a web application?
      <br/>
      45.        Difference between Black &amp; White box testing
      <br/>
      46.        What is Configuration management? Tools used?
      <br/>
      47.        What do you plan to become after say 2-5yrs (Ex: QA Manager, Why?)
      <br/>
      48.        Would you like to work in a team or alone, why?
      <br/>
      49.        Give me 5 strong &amp; weak points of yours
      <br/>
      50.        Why do you want to join our company?
      <br/>
      51.        When should testing be stopped?
      <br/>
      52.        What sort of things would you put down in a bug report?
      <br/>
      53.        Who in the company is responsible for Quality?
      <br/>
      54.        Who defines quality?
      <br/>
      55.        What is an equivalence class?
      <br/>
      56.        Is a “A fast database retrieval rate” a testable requirement?
      <br/>
      57.        Should we test every possible combination/scenario for a program?
      <br/>
      58.        What criteria do you use when determining when to automate a test or leave it manual?
      <br/>
      59.        When do you start developing your automation tests?
      <br/>
      60.        Discuss what test metrics you feel are important to publish an organization?
      <br/>
      61.        In case anybody cares, here are the questions that I will be asking:
      <br/>
      62.        Describe the role that QA plays in the software lifecycle.
      <br/>
      63.        What should Development require of QA?
      <br/>
      64.        What should QA require of Development?
      <br/>
      65.        How would you define a “bug?”
      <br/>
      66.        Give me an example of the best and worst experiences you’ve had with QA.
      <br/>
      67.        How does unit testing play a role in the development/software lifecycle?
      <br/>
      68.        Explain some techniques for developing software components with respect to testability.
      <br/>
      69.        Describe a past experience with implementing a test harness in the development of software.
      <br/>
      70.        Have you ever worked with QA in developing test tools? Explain the participation Development should have with QA in leveraging such test tools for QA use.
      <br/>
      71.        Give me some examples of how you have participated in Integration Testing.
      <br/>
      72.        How would you describe the involvement you have had with the bug-fix cycle between Development and QA?
      <br/>
      73.        What is unit testing?
      <br/>
      74.        Describe your personal software development process.
      <br/>
      75.        How do you know when your code has met specifications?
      <br/>
      76.        How do you know your code has met specifications when there are no specifications?
      <br/>
      77.        Describe your experiences with code analyzers.
      <br/>
      78.        How do you feel about cyclomatic complexity?
      <br/>
      79.        Who should test your code?
      <br/>
      80.        How do you survive chaos?
      <br/>
      81.        What processes/methodologies are you familiar with?
      <br/>
      82.        What type of documents would you need for QA/QC/Testing?
      <br/>
      83.        How can you use technology to solve problem?
      <br/>
      84.        What type of metrics would you use?
      <br/>
      85.        How to find that tools work well with your existing system?
      <br/>
      86.        What automated tools are you familiar with?
      <br/>
      87.        How well you work with a team?
      <br/>
      88.        How would you ensure 100% coverage of testing?
      <br/>
      89.        How would you build a test team?
      <br/>
      90.        What problem you have right now or in the past? How you solved it?
      <br/>
      91.        What will you do during the first day of job?
      <br/>
      92.        What would you like to do five years from now?
      <br/>
      93.        Tell me about the worst boss you’ve ever had.
      <br/>
      94.        What are your greatest weaknesses?
      <br/>
      95.        What are your strengths?
      <br/>
      96.        What is a successful product?
      <br/>
      97.        What do you like about Windows?
      <br/>
      98.        What is good code?
      <br/>
      99.        Who is Kent Beck, Dr Grace Hopper, Dennis Ritchie?
      <br/>
      100.        What are basic, core, practises for a QA specialist?
      <br/>
      101.        What do you like about QA?
      <br/>
      102.        What has not worked well in your previous QA experience and what would you change?
      <br/>
      103.        How you will begin to improve the QA process?
      <br/>
      104.        What is the difference between QA and QC?
      <br/>
      105.        What is UML and how to use it for testing?
      <br/>
      106.        What is CMM and CMMI? What is the difference?
      <br/>
      107.        What do you like about computers?
      <br/>
      108.        Do you have a favourite QA book? More than one? Which ones? And why.
      <br/>
      109.        What is the responsibility of programmers vs QA?
      <br/>
      110.        What are the properties of a good requirement?
      <br/>
      111.        Ho to do test if we have minimal or no documentation about the product?
      <br/>
      112.        What are all the basic elements in a defect report?
     </p>
    </div>
   </div>
  </div>
 </article>
 <p alt="687474:70733a2f2f626c6f672e6373646e2e6e65742f6c696a756e69:742f61727469636c652f64657461696c732f31353337363238" class_="artid" style="display:none">
 </p>
</div>


