---
arturl_encode: "68747470733a2f2f626c6f672e:6373646e2e6e65742f77656978696e5f33373736303130372f:61727469636c652f64657461696c732f313436313031363030"
layout: post
title: "Release-of-anyui-for-LVGL-v0.27.0"
date: 2025-03-07 17:52:33 +08:00
description: "Release of anyui for LVGL v0.27.0"
keywords: "anyui0.27下载"
categories: ['Anyui']
tags: ['物联网', '嵌入式硬件', '低代码', 'Ui', 'Iot']
artid: "146101600"
image:
    path: https://api.vvhan.com/api/bing?rand=sj&artid=146101600
    alt: "Release-of-anyui-for-LVGL-v0.27.0"
render_with_liquid: false
featuredImage: https://bing.ee123.net/img/rand?artid=146101600
featuredImagePreview: https://bing.ee123.net/img/rand?artid=146101600
cover: https://bing.ee123.net/img/rand?artid=146101600
image: https://bing.ee123.net/img/rand?artid=146101600
img: https://bing.ee123.net/img/rand?artid=146101600
---

# Release of anyui for LVGL v0.27.0

---

## Release of anyui-v0.27.0

### Preface

With the advent of the Internet of Things, the “screen reading” era predicted by Kevin Kelly has also arrived. In addition to devices similar to personal computers such as mobile phones and tablets, more and more embedded devices will be equipped with touch - screen displays. Building an excellent user interface (UI) application on embedded devices with limited resources is no easy task, and the entire traditional process is really time - consuming and labor - intensive.
  
LVGL is a mature, popular, and well - designed open - source UI library suitable for embedded devices with limited resources. More and more people are using it. However, manually creating an LVGL application from scratch still requires a lot of work. Therefore, some design tools for LVGL have emerged. Users can design their UI by dragging and dropping components, and then generate compilable and runnable C - language code with one click. In addition, users can launch a simulator to preview how it will look on the device. This indeed improves efficiency and saves a lot of time and effort.
  
Here, I would like to introduce a UI design artifact based on LVGL - Anyui. It is free, cross - platform, requires no registration, and even supports a web version. It’s worth a try.

### I. What is Anyui?

Anyui is a desktop - based UI design tool for embedded devices. Currently, it supports LVGL, which is a lightweight and popular UI framework for devices with limited resources. You just need to drag and drop components onto the canvas (screen), change their properties and styles, and Anyui can generate compilable and runnable source code (C code) for you with one click. You can also run a simulator to preview how it will look on the device. In this way, you can skip the cumbersome steps in the traditional method, such as writing a large amount of C - language code, building the project, flashing it into the device, and finally verifying whether everything runs normally. Just focus on your design, and leave the rest to Anyui. At the same time, Anyui provides a similar user experience to Sketch (a very popular design tool). All the efforts of Anyui are aimed at improving your work efficiency.
  
Currently, Anyui supports Windows and Mac systems, and there is also a web - based trial platform. You can try it online without downloading any packages. Moreover, it is free and does not require any registration. Just download and install it, and you can start using it.

**Features supported by Anyui:**

* Windows, Mac, and web versions
* Language switching (Chinese and English)
* Rich built - in components
* Template components
* High - order components (self - managed state)
* Multi - state buttons
* Label sliders
* Numerical sliders
* Checkboxes / Radio boxes
* Status bars
* Navigation bars
* Pop - up drawers
* Global status bar
* Undo / Redo (history of operations)
* Quick copy
* Auto - alignment
* Canvas zoom
* Component locking / hiding
* Portrait / Landscape mode
* New version check
* User - defined interface layout
* Component style brush
* Drag - select components
* Animation
* Window management
* Custom screen resolution
* Circular display
* Screen swipe gesture
* Full/Incremental/Mini build modes
    
  And more…

### II. New Features and Fixes in v0.27.0

You can download this version
[here](https://anyui.tech/blog/release/release-v0.27.0)
.
  
Demo video:
[Build a Printer setting UI in 3 mins](https://anyui.tech/blog/release/release-v0.27.0)

* Change way of dragging components, and improve
* Add “Mini” mode of building for speedy building if no resource changed
* Fix incremental build not taking effect on Windows
* Fix crash white screencrash issue when loading invalid lottie json file
* Fix component hovering highlighted issue in HoC editor
* Disable showing of context menu by default when “Ctrl+mouse” is pressed on Windows
* Add more tools for components alignment
* Remove unsupported application template
* Other fixes and improvements

### Conclusion

Anyui is evolving rapidly, and more and more features will be added. This chapter introduced the new features introduced in the newly released v0.27.0 version.